Add documentation for task queue based scheduled events (#4299)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/resources/scheduled-events/scheduled-events-task-queue.md

---
title: "Scheduled Events"
url: /refguide/scheduled-events-task-queue/
weight: 10
description: "Options for configuring scheduled events"
tags: ["Scheduled Event", "Execution properties", "Timing", "intervals", "scheduling issues", "time zones", "daylight saving", "task queue"]
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
---

## 1 Introduction

With scheduled events you can let the runtime execute a microflow repeatedly at specific moments in time.

A scheduled event is added to your module as a document (right-click your module and you will find it listed under *Add other*).

{{% alert type="warning" %}}
Scheduled events can be tested locally, but they will not be run if your app is deployed as a Free App. See the Free App section of [Mendix Cloud](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy#free-app) for more information on Free App limitations.
{{% /alert %}}

## 2 Common properties

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | Name | The name of the scheduled event. This name is stored in the `ScheduledEventInformation` objects at runtime, so that runs of the scheduled event are recognizable. |

Author: Do you mean `System.QueuedTask` and `System.ProcessedQueueTask` rather than `ScheduledEventInformation`? This is the only reference to `ScheduledEventInformation` in the task queue-based scheduled events documentation.
```suggestion
| Name | The name of the scheduled event. This name is recorded in the `System.QueuedTask` and `System.ProcessedQueueTask` objects at runtime, so that you can identify when this scheduled event has been queued or processed.|
```

Reviewer: Actually, it's both. For backwards compatibility we will keep storing objects of type `System.ScheduledEventInformation` (until Mendix 10, when we remove these). They will indeed also be stored in a `System.ProcessedQueueTask` object.

Author: So perhaps we should say:
```suggestion
| Name | The name of the scheduled event. This name is recorded in the `System.ProcessedQueueTask` objects at runtime, so that you can identify when this scheduled event has been processed. For compatibility with legacy scheduled events, it is also stored in the `ScheduledEventInformation` objects but this is deprecated and will be removed in Mendix version 10. |
```

| Microflow | The microflow that is executed when the scheduled event is executed. It should have no parameters and is run with all rights (see [Microflow](microflow)).                                                                                                                                    |
| Enabled | The microflow is only executed if the scheduled event is enabled. This setting only applies when running from Studio Pro or from Eclipse. On production environments, scheduled events are enabled/disabled via the platform tools (for example Developer Portal or Windows Service Console). |

## 4 Timing properties

| Property | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| --- | --- |
| Interval type | The type of scheduled that should be executed: [Yearly](#yearly), [Monthly](#monthly), [Weekly](#weekly), [Daily](#daily), [Hourly](#hourly) or [Minutes](#minutes). |

### 4.1 Yearly properties {#yearly}

Yearly events come in 2 flavours:

* Execute on a particular date
* Execute on a particular weekday

> #### 4.1.1 Particular date

Author: I think I would prefer `specific` to `particular` (throughout). What do you think?

Reviewer: Fine by me.

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | Date | The month and day on which to execute the event. |

Author: Perhaps an example of the format?

Reviewer: We have screenshots in the MR: https://gitlab.rnd.mendix.com/appdev/appdev/-/merge_requests/12559
Let me know if you can't access that and I will send them to you.

Reviewer: Month would be just the name of the month (e.g. March). Day would be simply a number between 1 and 31.

> | Time | The time of day at which to execute the event. |

Author: And an example here too? See comments about "time of day" in the _index.md file.

Reviewer: Time would be the hours and minutes of the clock, e.g. 12:34. The actual format depends on the user's international settings (e.g. 13:57 vs 1:57 PM).

| On overlap | How to deal with [Long running events](#long-events). |

{{% alert type="warning" %}}
It is possible to select the leap day (February 29th). In non-leap years the event will then be executed on February 28th.
{{% /alert %}}

#### 4.1.2 Particular weekday

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Month | The month in which to execute the event. |

> | Day | The day at which to execute the event. |

Author: I think an example here would be useful.
Does this for "every Monday in May", for example?

Author: ```suggestion
| Day | The day on which to execute the event. |
```

| Time | The time of day at which to execute the event. |
| On overlap | How to deal with [Long running events](#long-events). |

### 4.2 Monthly properties {#monthly}

Monthly events also come in 2 flavours:

* Execute on a particular day of the month
* Execute on a particular weekday

#### 4.2.1 Particular date

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Interval | The number of months in between executions of the event. This must be a divisor of 12. |
| Months | In which months to execute the event; not visible when executing every month. |

> | Day | The day of the months on which to execute the event. |

Author: Can you only have one day here. When it is weekly, you can say `Monday and Thursday` can you not say here `1st and 16th`?
```suggestion
| Day | The day of the month on which to execute the event. |
```

Reviewer: Correct, only 1 day. If you want the 1st and the 16th you need to create 2 separate scheduled events.

{{% alert type="warning" %}}
The selected day might not exist in all selected months. In those months the event will be executed on the last day of the month.
{{% /alert %}}

#### 4.2.2 Particular weekday

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Month | The month in which to execute the event. |
| Day | The day at which to execute the event. |
| Time | The time of day at which to execute the event. |
| On overlap | How to deal with [Long running events](#long-events). |

#### 4.3 Weekly properties {#weekly}

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Day | The days of the week at which to execute the event. |
| Time | The time of day at which to execute the event. |
| On overlap | How to deal with [Long running events](#long-events). |

### 4.4 Daily properties {#daily}

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Time | The time of day at which to execute the event. |
| On overlap | How to deal with [Long running events](#long-events). |

### 4.5 Hourly properties {#hourly}

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Interval | The number of hours in between executions of the event. This must be a divisor of 24. |

> | Offset (minutes) | The offset in minutes from the start time of an event period. For instance, set to 90 in order to execute halfway during a 3 hour interval. |

Author: Does this have to be less than the interval?
Or can I offset by 3600 minutes to shift my hourly event by 6 hours?

Reviewer: Yes, if the interval is 3 hours, then the offset must be between 0 and 179. The UI will enforce this.

### 4.7 Long running events {#long-events}

If a repeated scheduled event takes longer than the interval, an overlap would occur. To prevent this a choice must be made how to handle this:

* **Skip next** - If an event takes longer than its interval, subsequent events are skipped until it has completed.
  The next event will start at the next available schedule time.
  This is the default and will ensure that events are always executed at a schedule time.

* **Delay next** - If an event takes longer than its interval, the next event is delayed until it has completed.
  The next event will start immediately after the previous one has completed and will likely not be executed at a schedule time.
  If multiple successive events are longer than their interval, the intended schedule time will be farther and farther away from
  the actual start time. This situation should be avoided by choosing an interval that is generally sufficient to execute the event.
  Should an event have drifted a long way from its intended schedule over time, the best way to remedy this is to delete the event
  and create a new one (with a longer interval).

## 5 Additional information

### 5.1 Daylight saving

> If the chosen time zone is UTC, then an event will always execute at the specified time of day.

Author: `time of day` or `time`?
For example: "Morning" or "09:00"?

Reviewer: Time, then.
